Yap, API Routes, okay.
So, back to routing, check this out.
So, if you want to have an API for
your app,
you don't have to go make a whole another
server or use a background as a language,
or do any of that stuff, you get
basically service routing for free.
All you have to do is just make a route,
and now you have an API,
it's pretty simple.
So inside of our app folder,
we need to make another special
folder inside of here called API.
And then within this folder, it's
equivalent to the rest of the folders,
you just make another folder
that represents a segment,
and you need a special file in there.
In the case of pages, the special file
is called page, in the case of an API,
the special file is called route.
So if I go into the API folder and let's
say our todo app is also friendly for
developers who want to
integrate with their todos.
We're gonna make some routes for them
to pull and do crud on their own todos.
So let's make a new folder for
api/todos, or let's say /todo.
And then for that I want a route.ts
not TSX, it's not a JSX file,
it's it's a regular JavaScript file,
so route.ts.
And then inside of here,
all I have to do is export different
HTTP verbs that I want to run when
the matching one is requested.
So in this case, let's say I want to allow
someone to do a get request to /api/todo,
I would export a function called get.
If I want them to do a post request,
I would export a function called post,
this is a little different
than next day as 12.
If you've ever seen it
before next day as 12,
you just exported a function that
had a request and a response, and
you had to handle that logic
internally on whatever verb they sent.
You had to look at the rec, dot method to
determine if it was a post or put a get,
and then do the routing yourself.
Whereas with here, you just export the
function with the appropriate verb name
and that's handled for you, so
you don't have to think about it.
The other difference is like,
you didn't have to just like pages,
you didn't have a route that js or ts?
You just named the file,
whatever the route you wanted, but
now it has to be route inside the folder.
And the function kind of looks like this,
as long as you export it, you're good, so
let's check it out.
So let's just say I want someone to be
able to do a get request to /api/ todo,
no problem.
I can say export const, get like this.
And yeah,
now we can do whatever we want here.
So you're gonna get access
to a request object,
which is a requests standard
object from the Fetch API.
This is web standard request object,
this isn't something next Jas had which
in the previous version actually has this
request object was like
something that they made.
And you had to look it up and
it was kind of like to express but
it wasn't and it was very it
confused me a lot because it didn't,
It was trying to be like everything else,
but it also was very different.
This is just a standard request
object straight from MDN, I mean,
if we go look at this,
this has nothing to do with next js,
it's just a request object,
which I think is cool.
So if you ever start like writing code
on the edge, like a edge run time,
you'll be using this a lot, but it's
basically the same request that you might
have if you were using fetch,
if you did it that way.
So I like that you might not have done it
this way, you might have explicitly made
a request, but the fact that this is
a standard, I think that's really cool.
Because I'd rather work with standards
than framework specific things.
So I do like next.js direction of like,
let's move towards standard specific APIs
which is really cool, and I think they
kind of really had to since node.js or
next.js has many different run times now.
We didn't talk about it, but you can run
on a server, you can also run on the edge.
If you don't know what an edge is,
a CDN is a group of computers dispersed
all across the world, and
when I make a request to yourwebsite.com.
If you have a CDN, my request gets
routed to the computer closest to me, so
that means your website is copied
across many different computers.
Traditionally, you could have only put
read-only data on those computers,
like files that were already compiled and
you could read it.
Now you can compute on those computers, so
you can run functions on those computers
and do dynamic things,
which is really powerful.
So if your origin server is over here,
and you have all these nodes
around the world and someone from
Oregon is trying to hit your server,
they get redirected to
the computer in Oregon.
In which you can do some preliminary
logic there, maybe you check for
off, maybe you do some routing.
Maybe you look at their IP address and
look it up to see and see that there
are Coca Cola so then you rewrite to
the landing page to say hi from Coca Cola,
you can do whatever you want, right?
You can do that now and
it's really interesting, so
next year is allows you to do that too.
So you can just change the runtime
of things for basically free,
depending on where you deploy it to.
And in that runtime,
you have to use something like request.
You have to use something like
the the built-in standards because
those runtimes are so
light that they don't support full of
node.js environments, so
they very specific things like this.
Cool okay, so
we wanna do that we have a request, and
then from here I mean you could pretty
much do whatever you want in the request.
In this case, actually,
let's send something back, so
lemme show you an example, so
let's say I want to send back a response.
So what you can do is
you can just say return,
then you have this thing called
next response like this.
So this is actually just a wrapper
around the response objects from
the MDM standard, so if I look for
this, there's also a response here.
The next response is just a wrapper around
that, and I think they did that because
there was some TypeScript issues, I think
it was specifically for TypeScript.
So you can do the next response like this,
and then you can respond back
whatever you want,
I'm gonna respond back with some json, and
be like message hello,
so I can do that, right?
Do a get request,
I'm not even gonna use this.
So now I'm able to go to
/api/todo do a get request,
you go to the browser and do that,
that's a git request, so let's try that.
I'm 3001, you might be something else,
so todo or todo todo, so we'll do that.
And I get back a response message hello,
and that was it,
I just made a server as made API route.
So if you've ever had to set up API
route before you just like, wow,
this is a lot, well, okay,
you get it for free now,
you just make a file, and a verb and
you have API now, which is pretty cool.
So when you deploy this, this is
gonna be in a serverless environment.
It's such a misleading name,
it's definitely a server there,
all it does is you don't have
anything running constantly,
you just have a function that when
a certain route/ in this case, verb.
As well and this can actually just really
route when a certain route gets triggered,
that function gets read into memory and
then execute it responds back and
then shuts down.
For the most part,
there are like some performance
techniques around keeping functions warm,
because reading the file is a cold start
and that causes performance issues.
So is basically just
an infrastructure around,
trying to make it to where you don't
need to worry about scaling issues.
So if you ever had to deploy a server,
and then scale it cuz you got all these
requests, what if you
didn't have to do that?
What if everybody had their own instance
of a function that was running,
you'd have to worry about scaling and
it was just infinitely scalable?
And that's the promise of serverless but
the funny thing is,yeah, go ahead.
>> So that kind of like a lambda,
a function that runs when you call it?
>> Yeah, 100, a lambda is literally
the first serverless function,
that's what AWS calls their
serverless function, lambdas.
So they invented serverless functions, and
then everyone has their own version of
that these days, but at the end of the
day, they're called serverless functions.
But the funny story is like, forgot what
division of Amazon just came out and
said some some division of
Amazon was a customer of AWS.
Which I think is already funny how
their customers are their own company.
But like, yeah, we used Amazon, we use
serverless, we use lambdas for a while,
but then we switched to just
a traditional monolith server and
we saved 90% of our cost.
And I was like, damn, [LAUGH] I thought
service was supposed to be cheap.
But then I looked at their architecture,
and I'm like, well, okay, yeah,
their architecture was insane,
they were doing service for one job,
it was like a million
function calls running.
Not that much, but a lot to where it's
like, yeah, you guys should probably just
use a monolith server,
this isn't really meant for you guys.
So, it was pretty funny that that
happened, and then that they would publish
that, they're like, yeah,
serverless sucks, we didn't use it, sorry.
But we did use this other thing from
Amazon, so I guess it worked out.
So yeah, you get that for free,
let's say we wanna do a post request,
we can do that, right?
So I can say, yeah,
let me post something there,
if you want to get the data from
the post request, typically,
you do like rec.body or
something like that in express.
Now, this is a request object, so you
don't do that, so you'll get the data, and
that will be on requests.json, you have to
await it, then you can get the data, and
that's the equivalent of
getting the data off the body.
So you don't have to set up middleware
here, no body parser, none of that stuff,
you just write a function and
it's free, which is really cool.
So you can get that data, and I guess
I'll just echo that data back like this,
you do whatever you want, so
now if you wanna post this,
I'm just gonna open up
my thunder client here.
Make a new request to,
http//localhost 3001/api/todo,
make sure that's a post,
add in some json here,
and I'll just call this, Hello there,
then I can post that, and you can see
back, I get back exactly what I posted.
Hello there, hello where?
I'll get back that.
Hello where, right?
So post request works,
pretty simple, I mean,
there are some limits in
service environments, but
you probably don't need to know about
them right now, and if you needed to.
If you ran into that problem,
you can look it up,
it also depends on where you deploy it.
But for the most part, that is how you
would make service functions in next yes,
it's actually quite simple.